Answers to Applied Principles Questions
Word wrap on!

1. When considering how to allocate federal funding to different states and counties, one important KPI is the food_insecurity and low_food_security columns in the food_security table. These fields indicate what percentage of people per state are facing food inssecurity or low food security; these numbers should be considered. Other fields to consider include the columns in the access_indicators table, which store the percentage of people who live greater than one mile from any store, lack a vehicle, or are low income. The reasoning behind these KPIs is that people cannot use food funding if they are unable to visit a store for any reason.

2. As can be seen in the relational database, the Food Environment Atlas holds a vast amount of data for a large amount of counties across several states. While some simplifications have been made for ease of handling, the data are still very detailed in some respects. For instance, rather than storing data on the geographic basis of state or region, most fields apply to the geographic level of county. Additionally, many fields have a related 'per capita' or 'per 1000 people' field that allows users to better grasp the scope of the entry.

3. The relational database I constructed would have row based entries, each containing a primary key. Tables don't contain duplicate columns, and related data are stored in tables. In this sense, I think the food environment database is normalized according to 1NF. To meet the 2NF requirements, subsets of data that apply to multiple rows of a table must be placed in a separate table and referenced using a foreign key. I did this with regard to the state and county for most tables, and that may be the only data that would possibly apply to multiple rows. In that sense, I think the db is normalized according to 2NF as well. Finally, to meet the 3NF requirements, each table would only have columns that depend on the primary key; all others would be moved to a separate table. It is my thought that every column in every table depends on the specific county or state that are identified using the primary key and referenced using the foreign key(s). I think, then, that the database also fulfills the requirements of 3NF.